so it's saturday evening you and your
friends decide to play a new board game
you fill the table with snacks and
drinks distribute the ponds
and start playing you roll the dice and
get a five
and three your pawn moves eight spaces
on the flat squares
waiting to buy a city as it always goes
you look up what seems like a moment
later and it's already dark outside
you call it a night and you're off to
bed
next morning you wake up to something
bizarre
all you can see is lines there's no
height
no up or down you try to move your head
you can't see feet below you or a
ceiling above you
your view is limited to left and right
you try to jump no luck you can move
but only forward backward left and right
you check out your room there are no
windows just a line blocking you from
going anywhere
the wall you head to the left and right
you finally find the door a brown line
you can push
open if you could float up and look down
at your new world you'd see it
it's as if a thin pane of glass fell on
top of the world and
flattened everything like that game you
were playing
you're a flat pawn and can't lift
yourself from the board
or climb on top of objects you can only
go around them
your entire world is in 2d how can you
go to work
what happened the night before you need
to find
answers fast in your house the kitchen
is missing
you quickly slide to the right and
there's no bathroom either
where did everything go how can you eat
and shower
in a 2d world tubes don't exist which
means you no longer have a digestive
tract
stomach veins a sink or even a bathtub
now you're just a flat shape suddenly
you hear your dog barking
he's in the other room but it's hard to
see him yesterday he ran up to you with
his tennis ball to play
now you can only see him getting
brighter the closer he gets
he looks like a yellow line with some
discoloration around the edges
you gotta get out of here and find out
what's going on
you move to your house's front door
where the knob used to be
you see a golden line among the door
surrounding it
you press it the door opens and you
slide outside
that's when you see it a brand new
mysterious world you must now
figure out in the 2d world light and
perception work differently
only things close to you shine so that's
how you understand distance
there are no regular cars anymore just
individual
hollow squares with sliding doors that
allow you to enter
even though it's not tiring to move
across a flat surface when you're flat
too
these cars help push you to your
destination faster
you work at a newspaper agency the
perfect place to find out what happened
to the world
tall buildings no longer exist
everything stretches along the surface
instead
the four-story college building is
stretched so much
it takes you six minutes to drive past
it
just as you go to slide past the bank
you realize there's no stop lights
how will your car stop and go without
any direction
you see a long sliding line coming from
the left to the right
that's how traffic is controlled in the
2d world
a minute passes and the obstacle slides
by
allowing your car to move again you
finally get to the office
and you're met with chaos lines are
approaching you from every direction
the closer they get the brighter and
bigger they seem
you hear objects moving but can't
understand what they are
suddenly you hear a voice hey you're
late
it's your boss but how can he tell who
you are yet you can only see edges
brightness and colors
does he know what's really going on you
don't know which line he is with all the
shapes around
you call out his name instead a line
gets longer and brighter in front of you
is it him you ask if he knows what's
going on
nah but don't worry about it but how did
you know it was made
i knew everyone else's shape and you
were the only one that was late today
that's when you realize there's a way to
identify people
by circling around them in the 3d world
you see people's faces and body shapes
your two eyes focus to understand
depth and distance now your single eye
scans a longer line filled with edges
and colors
the brighter parts stick out towards you
the darker parts must bend inward
instead of saying i don't recognize your
face now you'll say
i don't recognize your edge you circle
your boss to observe him
he has strange edges three parts in his
shape are brighter
they must be pointing towards you you
ask what your shape is like
he says you're round because the middle
of you is brighter all the way around
you
you ask if you can cover the story on
what's going on today is a chance to
figure things out
he sends you to your office to finish
yesterday's story first
before moving on to today your office is
empty
but spacious furniture has become futile
since
you don't need to sit up off the floor
or set things on tables
you can't imagine finishing the article
with no computer or keyboard
you stand in the middle of the room
bewildered
people outside are whispering about the
missing third dimension
but when you head outside to ask they
change the subject
maybe it has to do with the game you
played last night
it was flat and so are you forget that
irrelevant article from yesterday
you must find your friend who bought the
game for you and ask him
you slide out the back door and get into
your car
you travel to your friend's house it was
easy to find because
in the 3d world it had a blue wall and a
red door
in the 2d world you can only see a blue
line
interrupted by a red one in the middle
as you step
outside the car you notice a large
brownish shape blocking your way
bright spots tell you it has pokey ends
and some
of them attached to you as you rub
against the mysterious object
it's a tree you want to observe all the
new weird shapes around
but there's no time you head to the
entrance of your friend's house
and forcefully push against the closed
door you shout
hey it's me are you okay what's going on
your buddy opens the door he has a
brighter edge in front and a slight
curve at the back he doesn't know what
happened or why
everyone else seems so calm you suggest
going back to your place to check the
game
he gets in his car and follows you home
you slide into your living room
where your bathroom used to be you
notice parts of the wall are brighter
it's as if it's filled with spikes
you go closer to inspect it you rub your
edges against the spikes
and green lines stick to it it must be
leaves from the tree you ran into
earlier
that's how people get clean in the 2d
world
you and your friend forage the house for
that board game
you search every room but line after
line in your field of vision
tells you nothing that's when it hits
you
board games are meant to be played on a
table
you look down at them and stretch out
your arms pick up your pawn and the dice
in this 2d world there can't be board
games
you're at a loss for words you and your
friends start spouting out theories of
what could have happened
and how to fix it maybe your idea about
a huge pane of glass
randomly falling and squishing
everything on earth is correct
you've exhausted yourself you slide over
to the wall
you just need to shut your eye for a few
minutes and think
you fall asleep you wake up 12 hours
later
and can't believe what you see your
friend is his
regular human figure he's lying on the
floor
your bed is unmade in your room like you
left it two days ago
and your dog runs to you to play with
his tennis ball
you may never know what happened or why
but the third dimension is back
but in another universe four dimensional
beings are being transported to
and totally confused by a 3d world
i'll save that story for another video